# Readme for Project 2

### Submitted by Abhijay Mitra (18IE10001)

## Instructions to run the file

 - The code is submitted as a single python3 file **`18IE10001_p2.py`** which can be run on any machine with the libraries installed with the command:
	 **`python3 18IE10001_p2.py`**.
 - The libraries used in the program are math, numpy and pandas and have been solely used for the purpose of import and extraction of data, and printing data in an orderly fashion. All necessary functions and methods for the purpose of the project have been self generated.
 - In case of difficulty to run the code with the github links for extracting the training and test data (lines 48 and 51) due to internet or server issues, feel free to use any offline copy of the same.

 ## Detailed explanations to the major functions/methods in the code

 - **`vdm`**: This method calculated the value difference metric (V.D.M.) with x and y as the values of the attributes. Here the vdm being calculated is Heterogeneous Value Difference Metric (H.V.D.M.).
 - **`get_distance_list`**: This method takes as input two parameters, the dataset (normalized) and the test cases for input. It returns a list of list of distances. One list for every test in the dataset.
 - **`list_of_neighbors`**: This method takes as input the number of neighbors to be returned and the distance list for the node generated by the **`get_distance_list`** function and returns the list of neighbors of that node.
 - **`print_helper`**: This method is a helper function to print the class labels of test data given a k as input.

## Contact

In case of any further queries feel free to contact

 - Abhijay Mitra
